These are few questions which we normally ask in DBMI.

What is data mining ?

Data Mining is a computational process of discovering patterns in large data sets involving methods at the intersection of artificial intelligence, machine learning, statistics and database system.
Or it can be defined as 
Data mining is a process of discovering interesting patterns from huge amounts of data.


Is data mining a hype ?

What is Machine Learning ?
It is subfield of comuter science that focuses on getting computer to act without being explicitly programmed.It focuses on the development of computer program that can change when exposed to new data.

What is data preprocessing ?

Why we need to to preprocess the data ?

What is consequence of having a data outliers ?
An outliers is a value that is very different from the other data in your data set.This can skew your results.

What is outlier ?
An outliers is a data object in a data set that deviates significantly from the rest of the data object, as if it were generated by a different mechanism

What are different methods of detecting outliers ?

Are their any applications detecting of outliers ?

What is data exploration ?

Can you draw box plot of given data ?

What is five number summary ?

What are the data mining applications ?

Can you explain how data mining is used in droid detection ?

Explain data mining applications for the finance ?

Explain data mining application for CRM ?

Explain how data mining can be used in medical industry ?

Explain data preprocessing steps ?
. Data Cleaning: Clean the data by filling in missing values, smoothening noisy data, identifying and
removing outliers and inconsistencies.
b. Data Integration: Data analysis involves integrating multiple databases, data cubes or files to
obtain consolidated data. Before any data is used, integration problems such as naming
inconsistencies, data type conflicts, redundancy and so on must be resolved.
c. Data Reduction: Obtains a reduced representation of the dataset that is much smaller in volume,
and yet produces same analytical results.
d. Data Transformation: Data is transformed or consolidated into formats appropriate for mining.


What are the main tasks of data mining ?
. Characterization
b. Discrimination
c. Association and Correlation Analysis
d. Classification
e. Prediction
f. Clustering
g. Outlier Analysis
h. Evolution Analysis


What is data visualisation ?

What is dat reduction ?

When we use histogram?

What is data normalisation ?

What is cleaning ?

How to handle missing values in data ?

What is data discretisation ?

What is binning ? 3 methods ? Why we do that ?

What is classification ?

What is clustering ?
Clustering analyzes data objects without consulting a known class label. The objects are clustered
or grouped based on the principle of maximizing the intraclass similarity and minimizing the interclass
similarity. Each cluster that is formed can be viewed as a class of objects. Clustering can also facilitate
taxonomy formation, that is, the organization of observations into a hierarchy of classes that group
similar events together.

What is frequent data mining ?

What are the applications of classification ?

What are the applications of clustering ?

What is association rules ?

What is apriory algorithms ?

What is decision tree algorithms ?

How we measure the performance of Classifiers ?

What's is info gain ?

What is naive based Classifier ?

What is regression ?

What is multiple liner regression ?

How to increase the classification accuracy ?

What is random forest ?

How K-means clustering algorithms works ?

What is k ?

What are the problems in k means clustering ?

What is hierarchical clustering algorithms ?

How to identify k efficiently ?

What are the problems in hierarchical clustering methods ?

Explain three methods of clustering ? How they work ?

What is supervised and unsupervised learning ?

Explain market bucket analysis ?

What is role of math models in BI ?

Can you tell me about ethics in data mining ?

Define decision support system ?

How data mining is used in retail industry ?
The retail industry is realizing  the possibilities of advantages by using data mining.A rich source is provided by the retail industry for data mining.In Retail industry,data mining can be used for multidimensional analysis of sales,customers and product.It can be helpfulin customer retention,the effectiveness of sales campaign may be analysed.Some examples of data mining are:
1.Performing market basket analysis-Finding which items customers buy together.This can be helful in layout startegies inside store and stocking.
2.Sales forecasting-Retailers can make stocking decisions by exploring time base patterns.
3.Database marketing-Customer profiles with certain behaviours can be developed and used for cost effective promotions.
4.Merchandise planning and allocation-Merxhandise planning and allocation for new retail stores can be improved by exploring patterns in stores with similar demographic characteristics.
5.Risk managment-Can be used to find products which may not suitable for competitetive offers,to target those customers who are most like to buy certain product.
6.Fraud detection
